Add blogpost about v0 recipe changes (#190)
conda/conda-dot-org: blog/2024-05-08-v0-format-modifications.mdx

[cep-14]: https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-14.md
[rattler-build]: https://prefix-dev.github.io/rattler-build/latest/

The recent approval of a new recipe format (v1) by the Conda Steering Council
via [CEP-13][cep-13] and [CEP-14][cep-14] marks an important milestone in the
evolution of package management in the conda ecosystem. While the community
embraces the potential improvements that come with the new format, it's
essential to acknowledge that the v1 format is still under development and is
being prototyped in [rattler-build][rattler-build]. Consequently, the v0 format
remains widely in use, emphasizing the need to balance innovation with support
for legacy systems.

In any evolving ecosystem, such as conda, change is inevitable; this requires a
delicate balance between progress and continuity. While the focus is on
innovating with the v1 format the transition and adoption will take time.
Consequently it's essential to remain responsive to the challenges and
requirements of those who continue to rely on the v0 format for their packaging
needs. Updates to the v0 format should be driven by the needs of the user

> community, guided by user feedback, and aimed at addressing pain points and
> enhancing usability.

Author: Enhancements probably belong in v1, not v0:

```suggestion
community, guided by user feedback, and aimed at addressing pain points.
```

To initiate changes to the v0 conda-build recipe format, the following workflow
can be followed:

1. Proposal: Any proposed modifications to the v0 format should also be proposed
   in the v1 format. The rationale here being, if it's necessary for v0 it should
   also be necessary for v1.
2. Approval: The proposed modification should undergo the same review and
   approval expected for the v1 format.
3. Implementation: Once approved, the changes can be implemented in the v0
   format, ensuring alignment with the corresponding features in the v1 format.

As the community navigates the transition from v0 to v1, clear communication and
guidance are paramount. Developers and maintainers need to be equipped with the
resources and support necessary to understand the implications of the new format
and make informed decisions about when and how to migrate. Additionally, robust
documentation and educational materials will play a crucial role in facilitating

> this transition seamlessly.

Author: Should we include a link to https://prefix-dev.github.io/rattler-build/latest/recipe_file/? Or is there some other migration doc that is better suited?

Should we mention https://github.com/conda-incubator/conda-recipe-manager?

Reviewer: We actually added migration docs: https://prefix-dev.github.io/rattler-build/latest/converting_from_conda_build/

Author: Added in https://github.com/conda/conda-dot-org/pull/190/commits/50bf324c57de9c08bbb05050cbc79faca01c57c3

---
title: "Navigating Change in Conda-Build Recipe Formats: Balancing Legacy and Innovation"
slug: "2024-05-08-v0-format-modifications"

> authors: [kenodegard]

Author: How do we credit ChatGPT here since it's technically not https://github.com/chatgpt?

Author: never mind, forgot we have an actual authors file

> tags: [announcement, conda, conda-build, recipe, cep13, cep14]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags: [announcement, conda, conda-build, recipe, cep-13, cep-14]
```

I think we usually write them like this?

description: >

>   The recent approval of the new recipe format (v1) does not mean the end of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The recent approval of the new recipe format (`recipe.yaml`, v1) does not mean the end of the
```

>   old format (v0). The conda community must balance innovation with support for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  old format (`meta.yaml`, v0). The conda community must balance innovation with support for
```

  legacy systems.
image: img/blog/2024-05-08-v0-format-modifications/banner.png
---

[cep13]: https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-13.md
[cep14]: https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-14.md
[rattler-build]: https://prefix-dev.github.io/rattler-build/latest/

The recent approval of a new recipe format (v1) by the Conda Steering Council

> via [CEP13][cep13] and [CEP14][cep14] marks an important milestone in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
via [CEP-13][cep13] and [CEP-14][cep14] marks an important milestone in the
```

> [cep13]: https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-13.md
> [cep14]: https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-14.md
> [rattler-build]: https://prefix-dev.github.io/rattler-build/latest/
> 
> The recent approval of a new recipe format (v1) by the Conda Steering Council
> via [CEP-13][cep13] and [CEP-14][cep14] marks an important milestone in the

Author: ```suggestion
[cep-13]: https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-13.md
[cep-14]: https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-14.md
[rattler-build]: https://prefix-dev.github.io/rattler-build/latest/

The recent approval of a new recipe format (v1) by the Conda Steering Council
via [CEP-13][cep-13] and [CEP-14][cep-14] marks an important milestone in the
```

evolution of package management in the conda ecosystem. While the community
embraces the potential improvements that come with the new format, it's
essential to acknowledge that the v1 format is still under development and is
being prototyped in [rattler-build][rattler-build]. Consequently, the v0 format
remains widely in use, emphasizing the need to balance innovation with support
for legacy systems.

> In any evolving ecosystem, such as conda, change is inevitable, requiring a
> delicate balance between progress and continuity. While the acceptance of the v1
> format signals a step forward, it also highlights the importance of ensuring
> that updates to the existing v0 format align with proposals made in the new
> format. Despite the approval of the v1 format, the transition to this new
> standard will take time. In the interim, the v0 format continues to serve as the
> backbone of many conda-build recipes, emphasizing the necessity of providing
> ongoing support and updates to meet the evolving needs of the community.
> 
> The decision to introduce changes to the v0 format should be driven by the needs
> of the user community. While the focus is on innovating with the v1 format, it's
> essential to remain responsive to the challenges and requirements of those who
> rely on the v0 format for their packaging needs. Updates to the v0 format should
> be guided by user feedback and aimed at addressing pain points and enhancing
> usability.

Reviewer 3: The first paragraph here is very similar to the last paragraph, so I propose combining these two sections in order to make the last paragraph feel less repetitive.

```suggestion
In any evolving ecosystem, such as conda, change is inevitable; this requires a
delicate balance between progress and continuity. While there is a focus is on
innovating with the v1 format, it's essential to remain responsive to the challenges
and requirements of those who rely on the v0 format for their packaging needs.
Updates to the v0 format should be driven by the needs of the user community,
guided by user feedback, and aimed at addressing pain points and enhancing usability.
```

Author: Good idea, I took your suggested change and added back "transition and adoption will take time":

```suggestion
In any evolving ecosystem, such as conda, change is inevitable; this requires a
delicate balance between progress and continuity. While the focus is on
innovating with the v1 format the transition and adoption will take time.
Consequently it's essential to remain responsive to the challenges and
requirements of those who continue to rely on the v0 format for their packaging
needs. Updates to the v0 format should be driven by the needs of the user
community, guided by user feedback, and aimed at addressing pain points and
enhancing usability.
```

To initiate changes to the v0 conda-build recipe format, the following workflow
can be followed:

1. Proposal: Any proposed modifications to the v0 format should also be proposed

>    in the v1 format. The rational here being, if it's necessary for v0 it should

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   in the v1 format. The rationale here being, if it's necessary for v0 it should
```

   also be necessary for v1.
2. Approval: The proposed modification should undergo the same review and

>    approval expected for the v1 format.

Author: is a CEP required for all modifications to the v1 format?

Author: Went ahead with simply expecting a whole CEP, there's no reason CEPs have to be "big" as the last few have been. They can be small ones too.
